# Class 33 Notes: <Login/> And <Auth/>

## Q And A:

1. **Why is the Context API useful?**

- Context API allows us to pass data through the component tree without having to pass props down at every level manually.[SOURCE](https://hashinteractive.com/blog/understanding-react-context-api/)

2. **Can a component outside of a provider get its context?**

- The most common way to access Context from a class component is through the static contextType . If you need the value from Context outside of render , or in a lifecycle method, you'll use it this way. The traditional way to retrieve Context values was by wrapping the child component in the Consumer. [SOURCE](https://www.taniarascia.com/using-context-api-in-react/)

3. **What are some common use cases for using the Context API?**

- **Make applications mulitlingual**: We can set the current language in the React context and all the components in a massive component tree can display text in the selected language. Using this we save prop drilling all the way down to the components.
- **Making Ux Themes**: The ability to set the theme is one of the best UX. E.g medium provides dark mode and light mode which makes it easy to read in the low light situation. To implement themes, it is required to repaint every component with new color and change few images, if we do not use the context, it will be a chaos to repaint every component by passing new theme via props.
- **Authorisation: setting the user role and info:** We can easily add User info in the Context and any component can pick info from a Context. We would be able to save all the prop drilling manually to all the levels.
- [SOURCE](https://blog.bitsrc.io/why-you-should-consider-the-new-context-api-in-react-a-deep-dive-d588b66c57b5)

4. **Describe “Context Hell”**

- when you use too many providers to pass down data through your react applications.[SOURCE](https://dev.to/alfredosalzillo/the-react-context-hell-7p4)
- Example:

```js
const App = () => {
  // ... some code
  return (
    <>
      <ReduxProvider value={store}>
        <ThemeProvider value={theme}>
          <OtherProvider value={otherValue}>
            <OtherOtherProvider value={otherOtherValue}>
              {/** ... other providers*/}
              <HellProvider value={hell}>
                <HelloWorld />
              </HellProvider>
              {/** ... other providers*/}
            </OtherOtherProvider>
          </OtherProvider>
        </ThemeProvider>
      </ReduxProvider>
    </>
  );
};
```

## Vocab:

- `global state:` state that is at the global/top level.
- `global context:` context which can be seen in the entire application. Example: language, color schemes.
- `provider:` a component who's context changes can be suscribed to and passed down to a consumer. [SOURCE](https://hashinteractive.com/blog/understanding-react-context-api/)
- `consumer:`A component that subscribe to context changes. lets you get context from within a functional component. [SOURCE](https://hashinteractive.com/blog/understanding-react-context-api/)
