# Node.js:

- Node is build on Chrome's V8 JS Engine.
- Node.js is a JS runtime.
- comes with package managment as well.
- Node.js compatability table: `https://node.green/`

- To install Package globally `npm install -g jshint`
- to lint shint to a js file `jshint index.js`
- to install a Packag locally `npm init -y`
- to load lodash package and save as a dependency `npm install lodash --save`

- in some languages, subsequent I/O operations block execution of code until the operation is completed. the server has to wait for the data lookup to complete before it can proceed.
- Node.js does not have this problem! it operates on a single thread!
- Node.js is also **event driven**, everything that happens is a reaction.
- Node.js also relies on callbacks.

- CONS: always need to avoid blocking I/O calls. some developers donline like the callback style.

- Node is suited to creating apps that require real-time interaction or collaboration.
- Node.js can also be used for scripting.

IN CLASS NOTES:

- img elements are treated the same way as text/letters. they have a little bit of space between them, and always appear on the same baseline togther, unless css-ruled otherwise.

- Make a plan before each assignment, and pitch your plan to the TA. is this a good plan? THEY WILL HELP YOU

- Purpose of CORS is to enable local processes to talk to the server.
  Cross Origin Resource Sharing. CORS can also block communication.

- `Environment:` all of the variables that belong to the terminal your code is running in.

- to add a new variable to your terminal, you can run `export VARNAME = value`
- if i want to see env variables `process.env.VARNAME`
