# Reading 00:

## All About Floats:

- `float` is a property in CSS
- It used to allow content to wrap around a specific element in a layout. (especially with text wrapping)
- Floated elements ramin a **part of the flow** of the webpage, unlike elements that follow `absolute` positioning.

- `absolute` postioned elemetns will not affect the positioning of other elements, and vice-versa.

- `float` has four values associated with it

  - Left - float things to left
  - Right - float things to right
  - None - used to ensure that element will not float
  - Inherit - which will assume the float value from that element's parent.

- `float` has cousin property `clear`
- `clear` set an element so that it will not move up and adjacent to float, but instead flow own and past it.

- `clear` has four values associated with it.
  - Both - clears from both left and right
  - Left/Right - used to clear float from either side.
  - None - makes it not clearable. not usually neccessary

#### Techniques For Clearing Floats:

- Empty Div Method
- The Overflow Method
- Easy Clearing Method

## Responsive Web Design:

- RWD is the practive of making a website suitable to work/display on any device and on any screen size.

- There is a difference between **Adaptive** and **Responsive** web design.**Adaptive** websites are built around preset factors, where as **Responsive** changes continuesly based on any number of factors.
- There is a favor for design that dynamiclly changes and adapys to different viewports.

**Responive Web Design can be broken down into 3 main components:**

- Flexible Layout
- Media Queries
- Flexible Media

#### Flexible Layout:

- The practice of making a layout with a flexible grid, capable of resizing.
- commonly utilize relative length units like `percentage` and `em` then used to declare other grid properties like `width`, `margin`, and `padding`.

#### Media Queries:

- Media Queries provide the ability to speficy different styles for individual browser and device circumstances.
- allows for targeted styles to be applied.

- use media queries by adding the `@media` rule inside of an existing style sheet from within html doc.

Example:

```html
<!-- Separate CSS File -->
<link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" media="all and (max-width: 1024px)" />
```

```css
/* @media Rule */
@media all and (max-width: 1024px) {
  ...;
} /* @import
Rule */
@import url(styles.css) all and (max-width: 1024px) {
  ...;
}
```

- Each media queiry may include media types followed by one or more expressions.

  - Types include `all`, `screen`, `print`, `tv`, `braille`
  - Logical Operators for queries include `and`, `only`, and `not`

- The `and` operator allows an extra condition to be added

```css
@media all and (min-width: 800px) and (max-width: 1024px) {
  ...;
}
```

- The `not` operator negates the query, specifying any query but the one identified.

```css
@media not screen and (color) {
  ...;
}
```

- The `only` operator the expression selects only screens in a portrait orientation that have a user agent capable of rending media queries.

```css
@media only screen and (orientation: portrait) {
  ...;
}
```

#### Media Features:

- identify what attributes or properties will be targeted.
  Example:

```css
/*Examples of the WIDTH and HEIGHT features */
@media all and (min-width: 320px) and (max-width: 780px) {
  ...;
}

/* Other features include
 - Minumum/ Maximum prefixes
 - Orientation
 - Aspect Ratio
 - Pixel Ratio
 - Resolution


*/
```

**Mobile First:** a popular media querying technique. this approach involves using styles targetted at smaller viewports as the default styles for a website, then using media queires to add styles as the viewport grows.

#### Flexible Media:

- the idea that media elements like videos, images, etc need to be made scalable, and change size with the viewport.

  - one way of doing this is with the `max-width` property, like so... WARNING: Does not work well with `iframes` and embedded media

  ```css
  img,
  video,
  canvas {
    max-width: 100%;
  }
  ```

  - To get embedded media to be responsive, embedded elements need to be absolutely positioned within a parent element.
  - The parent element needs to have width of `100%` so that it may scale based based on the viewport.
