# Class 02 Notes:

## 6 Reasons for Paired Programming:

1. It is more efficient! Though it takes slighly longer, paired programming can produce better quality code with less bugs.

2. Coding is more engaging. programmers are more focused, and less likely to become distracted while someone else is accomanying/working with them.

3. Programmings can learn from eachother as they work. maybe even pick up new techniques!

4. Improves social and communication skills.

5. Paired programming prepares you for the interview process.

6. Paired programming prepares you for real world development work.

## JQuery Notes:

- jQuery offers a simple way to achieve certain javascript tasks.
- Can be used to do things such as **select elements**, **perform tasks on the DOM**, and **handle events**.

- JQuery is a JS file that lets you manipulate elements based on their CSS selector.

```js
//Jquery function that creates a new JQuery Object
// takes in css selector as a parameter
$("li.hot");

////JQuery object has methods that you can use to maniuplate elements

//This method here will add the value 'complete' to the class attribute
$("li.hot").addClass("complete");
```

- Why use JQuery?

  - Simple way to pick out selectors
  - complete common tasks in less time
  - Cross Platform Compatability

- a **matched set** is what is given when a jQuery object is returned.
- if a selector returns more than one element, than the jQuery object will contain references to those elements.

- Some jQ methods retive info from and update the contents of elements.
- NOTE: if a jQ selector holds more than one element, and a method used to get info from those elements, it will **only** retrieve the **first element** in the matched set. however, if the method updates it, ALL of the elements will be updated

```js
//retrieving
var content = $("li").html();
//updating
$("li").html("Updated");
```

- JQuery objects stor references to elements.
- **Caching:** when a reference to a jQ object is stored in a variable.

- jQuery methods can be chained together on the same selection of elements.
  - NOTE: can only be done when updating elements, not for retrieving data from them.

```js
//Example
$('li[id! = "one"]'.hide().delay(500).fadeIn(1400));
```

- jQ's `.ready()` method checks if a page is feady for your code to work with.

```js
$(document).ready(function () {
  //when page is ready, do this!!!
});
```

- Can use `.html()` and `.text()` methods to retreive and update content.

```js
var $listHTML = $("ul").html();
$("ul").append($listHTML);

var $listText = $("ul").text();
$("ul").append("<p>" + $listText + "</p>");

// Other methods for updating content include...
.replaceWith()
.remove()

//Inserting Elements
.before()
.after()
.prepend()
.append()

//Getting/Setting Attribute Values
.attr()
.removeAttr()
.addClass()
.removeClass()

//Getting & Setting CSS Properties using the .css() method

$('li').css('background-color', 'blue');
var backgroundColor = $('li').css('background-color')

$('li').css({
    'background-color' : 'blue',
    'font-family' : 'Courier'
})
```

### In Class Notes:

- In js, all primitive value are "pass by value"
  when we assign them to other variables we are creating new values

- When we pass anything else we "pass by reference"
  Everything looking at the variable is looking at the orignal, no new copies are made.
- Primative: NaN, undefiend, numbers, null

- JQuery Basics / Methods:
  - Getters
  - Setters
